.TH "qoauth_namespace.h" 3 "31 Jul 2009" "Version 0.1.0" "QOAuth" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
qoauth_namespace.h \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Namespaces"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "namespace \fBQOAuth\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThis namespace encapsulates all classes and definitions provided by libqoauth. \fP"
.PP

.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef QMultiMap< QByteArray, QByteArray > \fBQOAuth::ParamMap\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA typedef for the data structure for storing request parameters. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Enumerations"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBQOAuth::SignatureMethod\fP { \fBQOAuth::HMAC_SHA1\fP, \fBQOAuth::RSA_SHA1\fP, \fBQOAuth::PLAINTEXT\fP }"
.br
.RI "\fIThis enum type describes the signature method used by the request. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBQOAuth::HttpMethod\fP { \fBQOAuth::GET\fP, \fBQOAuth::POST\fP, \fBQOAuth::HEAD\fP, \fBQOAuth::PUT\fP, \fBQOAuth::DELETE\fP }"
.br
.RI "\fIThis enum type specifies the HTTP method used for creating a \fCSignature Base String\fP and/or sending a request. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBQOAuth::ParsingMode\fP { \fBQOAuth::ParseForRequestContent\fP, \fBQOAuth::ParseForInlineQuery\fP, \fBQOAuth::ParseForHeaderArguments\fP, \fBQOAuth::ParseForSignatureBaseString\fP }"
.br
.RI "\fIThis enum type specifies the method of parsing parameters into a parameter string. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBQOAuth::ErrorCode\fP { \fBQOAuth::NoError\fP =  200, \fBQOAuth::BadRequest\fP =  400, \fBQOAuth::Unauthorized\fP =  401, \fBQOAuth::Forbidden\fP =  403, \fBQOAuth::Timeout\fP =  1, \fBQOAuth::ConsumerKeyEmpty\fP, \fBQOAuth::ConsumerSecretEmpty\fP, \fBQOAuth::UnsupportedSignatureMethod\fP, \fBQOAuth::UnsupportedHttpMethod\fP, \fBQOAuth::OtherError\fP }"
.br
.RI "\fIThis enum type defines error types that are assigned to the \fBQOAuth::QOAuth::error\fP property. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "QByteArray \fBQOAuth::supportedOAuthVersion\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the supported OAuth protocol version. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "QByteArray \fBQOAuth::tokenParameterName\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the name of the Access Token argument parameter. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "QByteArray \fBQOAuth::tokenSecretParameterName\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the name of the Token Secret argument parameter. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
This file is a part of libqoauth. You should not include it directly in your application. Instead please use \fC#include <QtOAuth>\fP. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for QOAuth from the source code.
